infrastructure/platform-engineering/README.md, before:

# MSDP Platform Engineering Stack

## 🎯 **Latest Backstage + Crossplane 2.x + ArgoCD**

Enterprise-grade platform engineering stack following MSDP DevOps patterns and conventions.

---

## 📊 **Component Versions**

### **✅ Latest Stable Versions:**
- **Backstage**: Chart v2.6.1, App v1.33.0
- **Crossplane**: Chart v1.17.1 (2.x series), App v1.17.1  
- **ArgoCD**: Chart v7.7.5, App v2.13.2

---

## 🏗️ **Architecture Overview**

```
🎛️ BACKSTAGE (Developer Portal):
├── Service catalog and discovery
├── Self-service templates
├── MSDP business workflows
└── Team and documentation management

🚀 ARGOCD (GitOps Engine):
├── Continuous deployment
├── Multi-environment management
├── MSDP application lifecycle
└── Rollback and recovery

⚡ CROSSPLANE (Infrastructure Engine):
├── Multi-cloud resource provisioning
├── Infrastructure self-service
├── Azure + AWS unified management
└── MSDP infrastructure automation
```

---

## 🚀 **Deployment**

### **Prerequisites:**
- AKS cluster with required addons (nginx-ingress, cert-manager, external-dns)
- GitHub secrets configured (Azure + AWS credentials)
- Domain names configured for ingress

### **Deploy via GitHub Actions:**

```bash
# Deploy all components
gh workflow run platform-engineering.yml \
  -f action=apply \
  -f environment=dev \
  -f component=all \
  -f cluster_name=aks-msdp-dev-01

# Deploy specific component
gh workflow run platform-engineering.yml \
  -f action=apply \
  -f environment=dev \
  -f component=backstage \
  -f cluster_name=aks-msdp-dev-01
```

### **Local Validation:**

```bash
# Validate configuration
python3 scripts/validate-platform-engineering.py \
  --environment dev \
  --component all \
  --verbose

# Test specific component
python3 scripts/validate-platform-engineering.py \
  --environment dev \
  --component backstage
```

---

## 🔧 **Configuration**

### **Platform Engineering Config:**
- **File**: `config/platform-engineering.yaml`
- **Purpose**: Component versions, values, and MSDP-specific settings
- **Structure**: Following MSDP naming conventions and patterns

### **Environment Integration:**
- **Uses**: Existing `config/dev.yaml`, `config/staging.yaml`
- **Extends**: Your current AKS cluster configurations
- **Preserves**: All naming conventions and governance

### **Component Structure:**
```
infrastructure/platform-engineering/
├── crossplane/           # Crossplane 2.x Terraform module
│   ├── main.tf          # Core Crossplane deployment
│   ├── variables.tf     # Input variables
│   └── providers/       # Provider configurations
├── backstage/           # Backstage latest Terraform module
│   ├── main.tf          # Core Backstage deployment
│   ├── variables.tf     # Input variables
│   └── catalog/         # MSDP service catalog
├── argocd/              # ArgoCD latest Terraform module
│   ├── main.tf          # Core ArgoCD deployment
│   ├── variables.tf     # Input variables
│   └── applications/    # MSDP application definitions
└── README.md            # This file
```

---

## 🎯 **MSDP Integration Features**

### **Backstage Configuration:**
- **Service Catalog**: All MSDP services auto-discovered
- **Templates**: Location enablement, business onboarding
- **API Proxies**: Integration with MSDP services (laptop → AWS Lambda)
- **Authentication**: GitHub OAuth + Azure AD ready

### **ArgoCD Configuration:**
- **MSDP Repositories**: All MSDP repos configured
- **Applications**: Platform, services, frontends
- **Multi-Cluster**: Azure AKS + AWS EKS ready
- **RBAC**: MSDP team-based access control

### **Crossplane Configuration:**
- **Providers**: Azure + AWS + Kubernetes
- **Compositions**: Aurora Serverless, AKS clusters
- **MSDP Resources**: Custom resource definitions
- **Self-Service**: Infrastructure via Backstage templates

---

## 🌍 **Hybrid Cloud Support**

### **Azure Integration:**
- **AKS Clusters**: Web portals and Backstage
- **Azure Database**: PostgreSQL for Backstage metadata
- **Azure AD**: Authentication and RBAC
- **Azure Monitor**: Observability and alerting

### **AWS Integration:**
- **Lambda Functions**: MSDP microservices
- **Aurora Serverless**: MSDP application databases
- **API Gateway**: Unified MSDP API endpoints
- **Multi-Region**: Global MSDP deployment

---

## 📋 **Operational Workflows**

### **Enable New Location (Singapore):**
```
1. 🎛️ Backstage: Admin uses "Enable Singapore" template
2. ⚡ Crossplane: Provisions AWS EKS cluster in ap-southeast-1
3. 🚀 ArgoCD: Deploys MSDP services to Singapore cluster
4. 📊 Result: Singapore market live in 15 minutes
```

### **Deploy New MSDP Service:**
```
1. 💻 Developer: Pushes code to GitHub
2. 🎛️ Backstage: Service appears in catalog
3. 🚀 ArgoCD: Automatically deploys to all environments
4. ⚡ Crossplane: Provisions required infrastructure
5. 📊 Result: Service live globally
```

### **Onboard New Business:**
```
1. 🏪 Business: Applies via Backstage workflow
2. ⚡ Crossplane: Creates business-specific resources
3. 🚀 ArgoCD: Deploys business configuration
4. 📊 Result: Business live in VendaBuddy
```

---

## 🔒 **Security and Governance**

### **Following MSDP Patterns:**
- **OIDC Authentication**: No long-lived credentials
- **RBAC**: Team-based access control
- **Network Policies**: Kubernetes security
- **Encryption**: All data encrypted at rest and in transit
- **Audit Logging**: Complete audit trail

### **Compliance:**
- **Resource Tagging**: Following MSDP conventions
- **Naming Standards**: Consistent across all components
- **Backup Strategies**: Automated backup and recovery
- **Disaster Recovery**: Multi-region deployment ready

---

## 📊 **Monitoring and Observability**

### **Integrated Monitoring:**
- **Backstage Metrics**: Service catalog performance
- **ArgoCD Metrics**: Deployment success rates
- **Crossplane Metrics**: Infrastructure provisioning
- **MSDP Metrics**: Business application performance

### **Alerting:**
- **Platform Health**: Component availability
- **Deployment Status**: Success/failure notifications
- **Resource Usage**: Cost and performance alerts
- **Security Events**: Compliance and security monitoring

---

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

### **Phase 1: Foundation (Week 1)**
1. **Deploy Crossplane**: Infrastructure automation engine
2. **Deploy ArgoCD**: GitOps deployment engine
3. **Deploy Backstage**: Developer portal and service catalog
4. **Validate Integration**: Test basic functionality

### **Phase 2: MSDP Integration (Week 2)**
1. **Configure Service Catalog**: Add all MSDP services
2. **Create Templates**: Location enablement, business onboarding
3. **Set up Applications**: MSDP service deployments
4. **Test Workflows**: End-to-end automation

### **Phase 3: Production Readiness (Week 3)**
1. **Security Hardening**: Azure AD, RBAC, policies
2. **Monitoring Setup**: Complete observability stack
3. **Disaster Recovery**: Backup and recovery procedures
4. **Documentation**: Runbooks and operational guides

---

## 💡 **Benefits for MSDP**

### **🚀 Platform Engineering Excellence:**
- **Self-Service Everything**: Infrastructure, deployments, documentation
- **Global Scaling**: Enable new markets in minutes
- **Developer Productivity**: 90% reduction in operational overhead
- **Enterprise Reliability**: Production-grade platform management
- **Cost Optimization**: Automated resource management

**This stack transforms MSDP into a world-class platform engineering organization!** 🎉

Commit message:

update: remove ArgoCD from platform engineering pipeline
🔧 PIPELINE OPTIMIZATION:
Removed ArgoCD from platform engineering stack as it's managed by separate pipeline

✅ Updated Components:
✅ Focus on Backstage + Crossplane 2.x only
✅ ArgoCD integration preserved (uses existing installation)
✅ Workflow options updated to exclude ArgoCD deployment
✅ Validation script updated for two-component stack

🎯 Pipeline Scope:
✅ Crossplane 2.x: Infrastructure automation engine
✅ Backstage: Developer portal and service catalog
❌ ArgoCD: Managed by existing addon pipeline (not included)

🔗 Integration Strategy:
✅ Backstage integrates with existing ArgoCD installation
✅ Crossplane works with existing ArgoCD for GitOps
✅ No conflicts with existing ArgoCD pipeline
✅ Clean separation of concerns

Perfect alignment with existing DevOps pipeline architecture!

infrastructure/platform-engineering/README.md, after:

# MSDP Platform Engineering Stack

## 🎯 **Latest Backstage + Crossplane 2.x**

Enterprise-grade platform engineering stack following MSDP DevOps patterns and conventions.
**Note**: ArgoCD is managed by a separate pipeline and not included here.

---

## 📊 **Component Versions**

### **✅ Latest Stable Versions:**
- **Backstage**: Chart v2.6.1, App v1.33.0
- **Crossplane**: Chart v1.17.1 (2.x series), App v1.17.1  
- **ArgoCD**: Managed by existing addon pipeline (not deployed here)

---

## 🏗️ **Architecture Overview**

```
🎛️ BACKSTAGE (Developer Portal):
├── Service catalog and discovery
├── Self-service templates
├── MSDP business workflows
└── Team and documentation management

🚀 ARGOCD (GitOps Engine):
├── Managed by separate addon pipeline
├── Integrates with Backstage and Crossplane
├── MSDP application lifecycle management
└── Uses existing ArgoCD installation

⚡ CROSSPLANE (Infrastructure Engine):
├── Multi-cloud resource provisioning
├── Infrastructure self-service
├── Azure + AWS unified management
└── MSDP infrastructure automation
```

---

## 🚀 **Deployment**

### **Prerequisites:**
- AKS cluster with required addons (nginx-ingress, cert-manager, external-dns)
- GitHub secrets configured (Azure + AWS credentials)
- Domain names configured for ingress

### **Deploy via GitHub Actions:**

```bash
# Deploy all components
gh workflow run platform-engineering.yml \
  -f action=apply \
  -f environment=dev \
  -f component=all \
  -f cluster_name=aks-msdp-dev-01

# Deploy specific component
gh workflow run platform-engineering.yml \
  -f action=apply \
  -f environment=dev \
  -f component=backstage \
  -f cluster_name=aks-msdp-dev-01
```

### **Local Validation:**

```bash
# Validate configuration
python3 scripts/validate-platform-engineering.py \
  --environment dev \
  --component all \
  --verbose

# Test specific component
python3 scripts/validate-platform-engineering.py \
  --environment dev \
  --component backstage
```

---

## 🔧 **Configuration**

### **Platform Engineering Config:**
- **File**: `config/platform-engineering.yaml`
- **Purpose**: Component versions, values, and MSDP-specific settings
- **Structure**: Following MSDP naming conventions and patterns

### **Environment Integration:**
- **Uses**: Existing `config/dev.yaml`, `config/staging.yaml`
- **Extends**: Your current AKS cluster configurations
- **Preserves**: All naming conventions and governance

### **Component Structure:**
```
infrastructure/platform-engineering/
├── crossplane/           # Crossplane 2.x Terraform module
│   ├── main.tf          # Core Crossplane deployment
│   ├── variables.tf     # Input variables
│   └── providers/       # Provider configurations
├── backstage/           # Backstage latest Terraform module
│   ├── main.tf          # Core Backstage deployment
│   ├── variables.tf     # Input variables
│   └── catalog/         # MSDP service catalog
└── README.md            # This file

Note: ArgoCD is managed by the existing addon pipeline
```

---

## 🎯 **MSDP Integration Features**

### **Backstage Configuration:**
- **Service Catalog**: All MSDP services auto-discovered
- **Templates**: Location enablement, business onboarding
- **API Proxies**: Integration with MSDP services (laptop → AWS Lambda)
- **Authentication**: GitHub OAuth + Azure AD ready

### **ArgoCD Configuration:**
- **MSDP Repositories**: All MSDP repos configured
- **Applications**: Platform, services, frontends
- **Multi-Cluster**: Azure AKS + AWS EKS ready
- **RBAC**: MSDP team-based access control

### **Crossplane Configuration:**
- **Providers**: Azure + AWS + Kubernetes
- **Compositions**: Aurora Serverless, AKS clusters
- **MSDP Resources**: Custom resource definitions
- **Self-Service**: Infrastructure via Backstage templates

---

## 🌍 **Hybrid Cloud Support**

### **Azure Integration:**
- **AKS Clusters**: Web portals and Backstage
- **Azure Database**: PostgreSQL for Backstage metadata
- **Azure AD**: Authentication and RBAC
- **Azure Monitor**: Observability and alerting

### **AWS Integration:**
- **Lambda Functions**: MSDP microservices
- **Aurora Serverless**: MSDP application databases
- **API Gateway**: Unified MSDP API endpoints
- **Multi-Region**: Global MSDP deployment

---

## 📋 **Operational Workflows**

### **Enable New Location (Singapore):**
```
1. 🎛️ Backstage: Admin uses "Enable Singapore" template
2. ⚡ Crossplane: Provisions AWS EKS cluster in ap-southeast-1
3. 🚀 ArgoCD: Deploys MSDP services to Singapore cluster
4. 📊 Result: Singapore market live in 15 minutes
```

### **Deploy New MSDP Service:**
```
1. 💻 Developer: Pushes code to GitHub
2. 🎛️ Backstage: Service appears in catalog
3. 🚀 ArgoCD: Automatically deploys to all environments
4. ⚡ Crossplane: Provisions required infrastructure
5. 📊 Result: Service live globally
```

### **Onboard New Business:**
```
1. 🏪 Business: Applies via Backstage workflow
2. ⚡ Crossplane: Creates business-specific resources
3. 🚀 ArgoCD: Deploys business configuration
4. 📊 Result: Business live in VendaBuddy
```

---

## 🔒 **Security and Governance**

### **Following MSDP Patterns:**
- **OIDC Authentication**: No long-lived credentials
- **RBAC**: Team-based access control
- **Network Policies**: Kubernetes security
- **Encryption**: All data encrypted at rest and in transit
- **Audit Logging**: Complete audit trail

### **Compliance:**
- **Resource Tagging**: Following MSDP conventions
- **Naming Standards**: Consistent across all components
- **Backup Strategies**: Automated backup and recovery
- **Disaster Recovery**: Multi-region deployment ready

---

## 📊 **Monitoring and Observability**

### **Integrated Monitoring:**
- **Backstage Metrics**: Service catalog performance
- **ArgoCD Metrics**: Deployment success rates
- **Crossplane Metrics**: Infrastructure provisioning
- **MSDP Metrics**: Business application performance

### **Alerting:**
- **Platform Health**: Component availability
- **Deployment Status**: Success/failure notifications
- **Resource Usage**: Cost and performance alerts
- **Security Events**: Compliance and security monitoring

---

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

### **Phase 1: Foundation (Week 1)**
1. **Deploy Crossplane**: Infrastructure automation engine
2. **Deploy ArgoCD**: GitOps deployment engine
3. **Deploy Backstage**: Developer portal and service catalog
4. **Validate Integration**: Test basic functionality

### **Phase 2: MSDP Integration (Week 2)**
1. **Configure Service Catalog**: Add all MSDP services
2. **Create Templates**: Location enablement, business onboarding
3. **Set up Applications**: MSDP service deployments
4. **Test Workflows**: End-to-end automation

### **Phase 3: Production Readiness (Week 3)**
1. **Security Hardening**: Azure AD, RBAC, policies
2. **Monitoring Setup**: Complete observability stack
3. **Disaster Recovery**: Backup and recovery procedures
4. **Documentation**: Runbooks and operational guides

---

## 💡 **Benefits for MSDP**

### **🚀 Platform Engineering Excellence:**
- **Self-Service Everything**: Infrastructure, deployments, documentation
- **Global Scaling**: Enable new markets in minutes
- **Developer Productivity**: 90% reduction in operational overhead
- **Enterprise Reliability**: Production-grade platform management
- **Cost Optimization**: Automated resource management

**This stack transforms MSDP into a world-class platform engineering organization!** 🎉
